---
id: 268
title: 'Now we are 30&#8230;'
date: '2009-07-15T17:53:00-07:00'
author: 'Aaron Lord'
layout: post
guid: 'https://blog.devlord.io/2009/07/15/now-we-are-30/'
permalink: /2009/07/15/now-we-are-30/
activitypub_status:
    - federated
blogger_f316279e632a22cbc8478bd21b80f9b4_permalink:
    - '1861147946939171284'
blogger_blog:
    - mustfollow.blogspot.com
blogger_author:
    - Aaron
categories:
    - Family
tags:
    - Christina
---

My wife turned thirty yesterday. This means we are, as a couple, "all grown up," which is weird in itself because I still feel like a kid. I am very proud of her. We got married a year-and-a-half ago. A year later she gave birth to our firstborn, Ava Marie, and two months ago she graduated from college. And now she's 30. She is a whole woman, nothing left as far as initiation to adulthood goes. I am so grateful to have her in my life.
<div>

I have been distracted by a great many things and forgot to get the day off to pamper her like I should have. Late on Monday night I went to the grocery store and bought some sundries. When the clock struck midnight, I had my alarm clock set to start playing her favorite Jason Mraz song. I gave her a card I "found under the bed", and which I felt best expressed my gratitude for her especially considering what she has meant to me during our recent trials. Then I "found" a bottle of Pinot Grigio and two T.U.L.I.P. glasses under the bed, and there were even two bottle-opening utensils down there! We shared some wine and spent some time together talking and enjoying each other's company until about half-past one. (Oh, and I also "found" a 42-ounce bag of M&amp;Ms!)

Though it began extremely well, it was still a tough day. It is not "just another day", no more than Christmas or Easter are "just another day", or the Lord's Day is "just another day". It was one of the special days where we get to "make much of" Christina, and show her our gratitude for all that she has meant to us over the last several years. Even more since it was her 30th. And much more so for those who have known her for three decades now and have been blessed by her generosity and caring and attention to detail at making every single day so special.

We used to go to a church with lots and lots of people, where she served in the children's ministry and impacted so many lives. Now times are much more lonely, since we go to a smaller church and are suffering estrangement for other reasons as well. I am going to make a Jonathan-Edwards-style "Resolution" and endeavor to surround her in the coming years with so many true friends (and more family members!). I want it to be like the restoration of Naomi in <a href="http://www.gnpcb.org/esv/search/?q=Ruth+4:11-17">Ruth 4:11-17</a>, when all the people praised her because of the restoration that the Lord had provided.
<blockquote><span class="hanging-indent">The children of your bereavement
will yet say in your ears:</span><span class="hanging-indent">‘The place is too narrow for me;
make room for me to dwell in.’</span><span class="hanging-indent">Then you will say in your heart:
‘Who has borne me these?</span><span class="hanging-indent">I was bereaved and barren,
exiled and put away,</span><span class="hanging-indent">but who has brought up these?
Behold, I was left alone;</span><span class="hanging-indent">from where have these come?’”</span><span class="hanging-indent">- Isaiah 49:20-21, ESV</span></blockquote>
<div>

"It is always good to be made much of for a good purpose, and not only when I am present with you..." Galatians 4:18 (ESV)

Happy Birthday, my Love!

</div>
</div>