---
id: 2397
title: 'Propserity Preachers and the Economic Downturn'
date: '2010-01-27T05:00:00-08:00'
author: 'Aaron Lord'
layout: revision
guid: 'https://blog.devlord.io/?p=2397'
permalink: '/?p=2397'
---

The <span style="font-style:italic;">Atlantic Monthly</span> has a <a href="http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200912/rosin-prosperity-gospel/">piece that implicates</a> the Prosperity (false) Gospel as the cause of the Great Recession.<br /><blockquote>The subprime officers were drawn from “an utterly different background” than the professional bankers, she told me. She had been running a small paralegal business; her co-workers had been car salespeople, or had worked in telemarketing. They were prized for their ability to hustle on the ground and “look you in the eye when they shook your hand,” she surmised. As a reward for good performance, the bank would sometimes send a Hummer limo to pick up Jacobson for a celebration, she said. She’d arrive at a bar and find all her co-workers drunk and her boss “doing body shots off a waitress.”<br /><br />The idea of reaching out to churches took off quickly, Jacobson recalls. The branch managers figured pastors had a lot of influence with their parishioners and could give the loan officers credibility and new customers. Jacobson remembers a conference call where sales managers discussed the new strategy. The plan was to send officers to guest-speak at church-sponsored “wealth-building seminars” like the ones Bowler attended, and dazzle the participants with the possibility of a new house. They would tell pastors that for every person who took out a mortgage, $350 would be donated to the church, or to a charity of the parishioner’s choice. “They wouldn’t say, ‘Hey, Mr. Minister. We want to give your people a bunch of subprime loans,” Jacobson told me. “They would say, ‘Your congregants will be homeowners! They will be able to live the American dream!’”</blockquote>HT - <a href="http://www.marshillchurch.org/media/luke/jesus-without-sin">Mark Driscoll</a><div class="blogger-post-footer"></div>