---
id: 2504
title: 'Wisdom Teeth, or My Mouth Hurts Really Bad'
date: '2006-07-14T06:54:00-07:00'
author: 'Aaron Lord'
layout: revision
guid: 'https://blog.devlord.io/?p=2504'
permalink: '/?p=2504'
---

Well, I got my lower wisdom teeth removed yesterday.  It hurts so bad!!!  I had totally been looking forward to having the day off from work (I don't get many of those), but I don't think the trade-off is worth all the pain!  I'd much rather be performing monthly maintenance tasks on the company's call collector database, or even—*gasp*—importing huge spreadsheets of e-mail addresses into the Smash Mag mailing list!<br /><br />Last night I watched the new <i>Pride and Prejudice</i> with my parents.  Being the manly man that I am, I tried to avoid it for such a long time!  But I suppose my curiosity was captured through the references in <a href="http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0785263705/lbmusic" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Blue Like Jazz</a>, as well as <a href="http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/6305368171/lbmusic" target="_blank" rel="noopener">You've Got Mail</a> (which isn't a very manly-man type of film either).  Notwithstanding the fact that it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than it is for a rich man to enter the Kingdom of God, the film was actually quite good, and I gotta say Elizabeth Bennett's an awesome chick!  However, I did get rather depressed by that whole, "Papa, we're so similar", thing.  I think the quest for a soulmate is easier when you just give up on it entirely, and it hurts less when you don't expose yourself to such sentiments in film and literature.  But that's a rather morbid attitude, and since I am never again going to date somebody with which I don't have that kind of connection, I should make it clear that avoiding the soulmate idea for me does not mean replacing it with an anti-soulmate outlook.  Once, for a couple of months, I gave up on the soulmate thing and replaced it with a sort of pragmatic, go-with-the-flow outlook, and I must say it was the worst period of my life.  I believe in the Providence of God, and that he does have someone picked out for me who would match in that e-Harmony kind of way (which I don't use, by the way), and I reject the teaching and opinions of those who say the opposite.   So when I say it's easier to avoid it, I guess I mean it's easier to not think about it (for example, by avoiding chick flicks and love songs), because all that does is bring depression.  I guess I have to just wait for God's timing and remain available to whatever his plans are, waiting for him to point her out to me.<br /><br />One more observation: I gotta say that if it is at all possible, one should avoid having 5 daughters and no sons.  I know that sometimes such things cannot be avoided, but in such cases, one should hope for his daughters to be more like Elizabeth than the others, and one should stand up and be the man of the house and prevent the kind of meddlesomeness and shallowness expressed by the mother and other sisters.  Okay, that's all I have to say about that.<div class="blogger-post-footer"></div>